Hi, I'm Unmilan. I work as an SRE/Production Support Engineer at Rogers Telecom where I manage system reliability, deployments, monitoring and incident response for telecom billing platforms. I work with Linux, Jenkins, Git, Docker, Kubernetes (EKS), ArgoCD, Terraform, Ansible, Splunk and Dynatrace.
Earlier we used Prometheus and Grafana dashboards for CPU, latency and billing job metrics, and now we are mostly using Dynatrace for APM, service-level tracing and alerting. My role includes handling Sev1 incidents end-to-end, automating operational tasks using Bash/Python, improving monitoring, and ensuring smooth operation of billing cycles and microservices running on cloud.

Introduction:

Hi, I’m Unmilan. I work as a Site Reliability / Production Support Engineer at Rogers Telecom. 
My job is to keep telecom billing systems running smoothly and reliably. 
I take care of deployments, monitoring, and incident response.

I use tools like Linux, Jenkins, Git, Docker, Kubernetes (EKS), ArgoCD, Terraform, Ansible, Splunk, and Dynatrace.

Earlier, we tracked system health with Prometheus and Grafana dashboards (CPU, latency, billing jobs). 
Now, we mainly use Dynatrace for application monitoring, tracing, and alerts.

My daily work includes:

Handling critical incidents (Sev1) from start to finish

Automating routine tasks with Bash and Python

Improving monitoring and alerting systems

Making sure billing cycles and cloud-based microservices run without issues

Can you explain your project architecture and what part of it you handle?

We work on a Telecom Billing Reliability platform. Core BRM billing runs on Linux VMs, 
and supporting microservices like notification-service and usage-summary APIs run on AWS EKS. 
Our CI/CD pipeline is built using Jenkins and Git,
 where Jenkins builds Docker images and pushes them to AWS ECR, and ArgoCD handles GitOps-based deployment into Kubernetes.

I take care of production reliability, deployments, Sev1 incident handling, Kubernetes pod troubleshooting, scaling,
 config updates, and infra modifications using Terraform. I also automate operational activities using 
 Ansible and Bash/Python scripts to reduce manual effort and speed up recovery.
 
3. Can you walk me through your CI/CD pipeline end to end?
How does a new code change go to production?

Answer in steps — simple & clear.

Use this template:

Developer commits code

Jenkins pipeline triggers

Build → Test → Create Docker image

Push to AWS ECR

ArgoCD syncs manifest

Deployment rolls out to EKS

Validate pods/logs

Rollback if needed

When a developer pushes code to Git, Jenkins pipeline is triggered automatically. It runs build and unit tests, 
then creates a Docker image and pushes it to AWS ECR. ArgoCD continuously watches the Git repo for manifest changes 
and syncs the updated image tag to EKS. Once deployed, I verify pod health using kubectl get/describe/logs, monitor metrics
 in Dynatrace, and if needed, 
scale services or rollback using ArgoCD or previous image tag

“We run all our billing and microservices on AWS EKS.
Terraform is used to manage our cloud infrastructure.
Whenever we need to increase capacity, add a new node group, update configurations, or make infra changes — we don’t do it manually in AWS console.
Instead, I update the Terraform files, generate a plan, raise a pull request for review, and after approval the changes get applied to production through our CI/CD pipeline.”


I used Ansible to automate repetitive operational tasks like log cleanup, patching, service restart, 
config deployment and rolling updates.
I work with playbooks, roles, handlers, inventory and vault.
We always test in non-prod, use check mode and execute through pipeline for production.


Scenario 1:Log cleaning 7 days ago

We were getting frequent disk space alerts due to log growth.
I wrote an Ansible playbook to delete old logs and restart the service only if required.
Then we scheduled it via a Jenkins job with a weekly cron trigger, so it ran automatically and we could track every run in Jenkins.
This reduced manual effort and prevented disk full issues in production

Scenario 2 – Patching & OS updates

Instead of manually updating Linux servers, I wrote playbooks to run yum update & reboot sequentially with 0 downtime.

For patching, we used an Ansible rolling update approach.
I configured serial: 1 in the playbook so only one server gets updated and rebooted at a time.
After patching, the playbook waits for the service to come back healthy, then automatically moves to the next server.
This helped us patch multiple production servers with zero downtime.

wait_for condirion to check if the server one is up

Scenario 3: Deploy config file for 10 billing servers if any changes.

I created an Ansible playbook with a template and deployed config to all prod servers automatically.
We pushed the change through Git → PR → Jenkins triggered playbook → config deployed across nodes uniformly.
Handlers restarted the service only if config changed.
This avoided manual errors and kept all servers consistent

Why ansible pished model:

Because Ansible connects to servers over SSH and pushes configurations/commands directly to them,
 instead of requiring agents to pull configurations periodically
 
 Scenario 5 – Secure Password Handling using Ansible Vault

Problem:
Database credentials were stored in config files.
Security risk if someone sees sensitive data in repo.

What you did:

“We stored DB credentials in Ansible Vault, not in plain text.
The encrypted file is decrypted only during execution time.
This keeps passwords secure and audit compliant.”

Scenario 6 – Self-Healing Script Automation

Service occasionally crashed → manual restart needed → alerts waking team.

What you did:

“I created a health-check task + handler in Ansible which automatically restarts the service if it’s down.
This reduced incident volume and improved uptime

Can you rollback in Ansible?

Not automatic like Terraform.
We maintain rollback playbooks or keep previous config backups.


Handlers are special tasks that run only when notified.
If a task changes something, it sends a notify signal to a handler.
For example, when a config file is updated, we notify the handler to restart the service.
If no change occurs, the handler won’t run — helping maintain idempotency and avoid unnecessary restarts

code :
Ansible:

handlerand notify:

hosts:<>
tasks:
		-name : <new config changes>
		   
		notify: restart-app
handlers:
         name :resgtart-app
		 service: 
		 systemctl start all
		 
		 
terraform :

resource "aws_resource" "ec2" {
ami = "ami_id"
instance_type= "m5.large"
}

Kubernetes:

APi version --> kind--> metadata--> spec with replicas-->selector -->template--> container-->

StatefulSet is used for stateful applications where each pod needs a unique identity and persistent storage.
Even after restart, pod names and volumes remain the same.
It's used for databases or systems like Kafka, Cassandra, Redis.”

Readiness Probe checks if the application is ready to serve traffic.
If readiness fails, Kubernetes stops sending requests to that Pod but doesn’t restart it.

Liveness Probe checks if the application is alive.
If liveness fails, Kubernetes restarts the container automatically.

In production, LoadBalancer is used for public exposure and ClusterIP for internal microservice communication


In our environment at Rogers, Helm isn't used for deployments.
We use GitOps with ArgoCD, where Kubernetes manifests are stored in Git and ArgoCD syncs them to the cluster.

We commit → PR review → merge → ArgoCD deploys automatically.
This gives us auditability, rollback, drift detection, and controlled production release

Our workloads are stable and template complexity is low, so raw manifests + GitOps work well.
Helm templates weren't necessary, and Git-based manifest control gave better governance and approvals

Example 2: Workspace/Disk Full Error

Problem: Builds queued, Jenkins node running out of space.
Fix: Cleaned workspace & logs, used cleanWs() post-build step.

Speak like this:

"The Jenkins workspace got full and no new builds were running.
I cleared old workspaces, enabled automatic workspace cleanup, and builds started successfully."

Example 3: Credentials/Secret Misconfiguration

Problem: Jenkins pipeline failing at authentication stage.
Cause: Expired or wrong credentials for repo/registry.
Fix: Updated credentials in Jenkins > reran build.

Speak like this:

"A pipeline was failing while pushing the image to the registry due to expired credentials.
I updated the credentials in Jenkins credentials store and the pipeline ran fine."